blog: calcom platform starter. (#27320)
supabase/supabase: apps/www/_blog/2024-06-18-calcom-platform-starter-kit-nextjs-supabase.mdx

---
title: 'Cal.com launches Expert Marketplace built with Next.js and Supabase.'
description: Cal.com and Supabase team up to build an open-source platform starter kit for developers.
author:
image:
thumb:
categories:
  - developers
tags:
  - open-source
  - partnerships
  - nextjs
date: '2024-06-18'
toc_depth: 2
---

> Contrary to popular belief, due to the biggest online beef in modern history, Calcom and Supabase are actually supa good friends, united by a common mission to build open source software.

Author: ```suggestion
Contrary to popular belief, due to the biggest online beef in modern history, Cal.com and Supabase are actually supa good friends, united by a common mission to build open source software.
```

![ze germans tweet]()

> So when the calcom team reached out about collaborating on on their new platform starter kit, we were excited to work together. Finally we could collaborate on a ProductHunt launch instead of competing against each other.

Reviewer: Cal.com

Author: ```suggestion
So when the Cal.com team reached out about collaborating on on their new platform starter kit, we were excited to work together. Finally we could collaborate on a ProductHunt launch instead of competing against each other.
```

> So when the calcom team reached out about collaborating on on their new platform starter kit, we were excited to work together. Finally we could collaborate on a ProductHunt launch instead of competing against each other.

Reviewer: Product Hunt

For more details on using Prisma with Supabase, read the [officiale docs](https://supabase.com/partners/integrations/prisma).

### Multischema support in Prisma

In Supabase the `public` schema is exposed via the autogenerated [PostgREST]() API, which allows you to connect with your database from any environment that speaks HTTPS using the [Supabase client libraries]() like [supabase-js]() for example.

When using Prisma, your application will connect directly to your database, therefore it's advisable to put your data on a separate schema that is not exposed via the API.

We can do this by enabling `multischema` support in the `schema.prisma` file:

```ts schema.prisma
generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
  previewFeatures = ["multiSchema"]
}

model Account {
  id                String  @id @default(cuid())
  // ...

  @@schema("prisma")
}
```

## React Dropzone and Supabase Storage for profile image uploads

Supabase storage is an S3 compatible cloud-based object store that allows you to store files securely. It is conveniently integrated with [Supabase Auth]() allowing you to easily limit access for uploads and downloads.

> However, this project is using [next-auth]() instead of Supabase Auth. Luckily though, Supabase Storage is supa felxible, allowing you to easily create signed upload URLs server-side to then upload assets from the client-side.

Author: ```suggestion
However, this project is using [next-auth]() instead of Supabase Auth. Luckily though, Supabase Storage is supa flexible, allowing you to easily create signed upload URLs server-side to then upload assets from the client-side.
```

> To faciliate this, we can create an API routes in Next.js to generate these signed URLs:

Author: ```suggestion
To facilitate this, we can create an API route in Next.js to generate these signed URLs:
```

        <input {...getInputProps()} />
        <p>Drag 'n' drop some files here, or click to select files</p>
        <em>(Only *.jpeg and *.png images will be accepted)</em>
      </div>
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Custom Next.js Image loader for Supabase Storage

Supabase Storage also conveniently integrates with the Next.js Image paradigm, by creating a custom loader:

```ts src/lib/supabase-image-loader.ts
import { env } from '@/env'

export default function supabaseLoader({ src, width, quality }) {
  return `${env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL}/storage/v1/object/public/${src}?width=${width}&quality=${quality || 75}`
}
```

Now we just need to register the custom loader in the `next.config.js` file:

```js next.config.js
images: {
  loader: "custom",
  loaderFile: "./src/lib/supabase-image-loader.ts",
},
```

and we can start using the Next.js Image component by simply providing the file path within Supabase Storage:

```tsx
<Image
  alt="Expert image"
  className="aspect-square rounded-md object-cover"
  src="bucket/image.png"
  height="64"
  width="64"
/>
```

## Supabase Vercel Integration for one-click deploys

## Contributing to open source

## Resources

> - [Cal.com platform starter kit GitHub repository](https://github.com/calcom/platform-starter-kit)

Reviewer: Cal.com Platform Starter Kit

Author: ```suggestion
- [Cal.com Platform Starter Kit GitHub repository](https://github.com/calcom/platform-starter-kit)
```
